# Using the API

The testing tool comes with a minimal API for running tests remotely and configuring the testing tool instance dynamically.
This is particularly useful for automated testing purposes. The two endpoints presented by the API are:
- `/api` `[GET, POST]` - this is the primary endpoint for executing tests.
- `/config` `[GET, PATCH]` - this endpoint returns the current config and allows dynamic configuration of the testing tool.

### `/api`
`[GET, POST]`

This endpoint accepts (almost) identical inputs as the non-interactive command line utility, except hyphens (-) are replaced with underscores (\_) for key values.

- GET - Example page
- POST - Perform a test for a remote host or list the set of test-suites / tests within a suite.

For a list of test suites, the body of the POST request would be:

```json
{
  "list_suites": true
}
```

To execute a test for a remote API, the body of the POST request would look something like:

```json
{
  "suite": "IS-05-01",
  "host": ["192.168.1.2"],
  "port": [80],
  "version": ["v1.0"]
}
```

Where a field is not required by the test suite such as for IS-09-02, 'null' should used to replace string values, and '0' for numeric values, for example:

```json
{
  "suite": "IS-09-02",
  "host": ["192.168.1.2", null],
  "port": [0, 0],
  "version": [null, "v1.0"]
}
```

### `/config`
`[GET, PATCH]`

- GET - render the current loaded config.
- PATCH - alter the running config.

To change the testing tool to restrict the maximum number of resources that time consuming tests run against, the body of the request would be:

```json
{
  "MAX_TEST_ITERATIONS": 3
}
```

## Known Issues

- Much like in non-interactive mode, the testing tool is currently limited to running a _single test suite at a time_.
- Changes to the `ENABLE_HTTPS` flag via the API will not configure the Testing Tool's Flask instances correctly for use with
TLS. This specifically affects the IS-04 test suites. For changes to this parameter, it is advised the UserConfig.py file is
changed and the service restarted.
- Changes to the `DNS_SD_MODE` parameter via the API to `unicast` will currently not work as expected. For changes to this
parameter, it is advised the UserConfig.py file is changed and the service restarted.
