# Testing NMOS Controllers

## Running the Semi-automatic NMOS Controller Tests

Launch the Testing Façade from the testingfacade directory. By default the Testing Façade will run on port 5001
```shell
python3 TestingFacade.py
```

Launch the NMOS Testing tool in the usual way.

In the NMOS Testing Tool select 'NMOS Controller' tests and configure the IP/Hostname to that of the machine running the Testing Façade (e.g. localhost) and the Port to the Testing Façade's port (use 5001 by default)

Select and launch the tests from the NMOS Testing tool, and follow the instructions displayed on the Testing Façade.

## Testing Unicast Discovery

Test_01 "Ensure NCuT uses DNS-SD to find registry" tests whether the NMOS Controller is able to use DNS-SD to discover the mock registry. The testing tool launches its own mock DNS server which your NMOS Controller will need to be pointing at in order to correctly discover the mock registry. The following steps should be completed to operate in this mode:

*   Ensure the `DNS_SD_MODE` in the testing tool's `nmostesting/UserConfig.py` file is set to `'unicast'` before running the tool.
*   Configure the DNS search domain for your Node to be `testsuite.nmos.tv` (either manually or by providing this to your Node via DHCP).
*   Configure the DNS server IP address for your Node to be the IP address of the host which is running the testing tool (either manually or by providing this to your NMOS Controller via DHCP).

Unicast DNS advertisements for registries only become available once tests are running. As a result the NMOS Controller under test may need prompting to re-scan the DNS server for records at this point. 

If your network requires the use of the proxy server, you may find it necessary to disable this configuration on the host running the testing tool and on the unit under test when using unicast DNS. This is because any requests to fully qualified hostnames are likely to be directed to your proxy server, which will be unable to resolve them.



More technical information can be found [here](../testingfacade/README.md) 